Add a roadmap for the project (#3333)
jetstack/cert-manager: ROADMAP.md

Roadmap
=======

These are the themes that we plan to work on for cert-manager. If you wish
to discuss these topics you can find us in #cert-manager on Kubernetes Slack, or

> at our community meetings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at our [community meetings](https://cert-manager.io/docs/contributing/#meetings).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: can we add something in terms of:

```
The roadmap items are categorized in different main topics of bigger goals we want cert-manager to achieve.
```

> * Beyond Ingress: using cert-manager for applications beyond just

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Beyond Ingress: improve experience of cert-manager for applications beyond just
```

is confusing as this works already today, we just want  to go further

Roadmap
=======

> These are the themes that we plan to work on for cert-manager. If you wish

Reviewer 2: Can we add a note that despite this being the roadmap PRs are still welcome

to discuss these topics you can find us in #cert-manager on Kubernetes Slack, or
at our [community meetings](https://cert-manager.io/docs/contributing/#meetings).

The roadmap items are categorized in to themes based on the larger goals we
want to achieve with cert-manager.

* Beyond Ingress: improve experience of cert-manager for applications beyond just
  ingress certificates
  * Service Mesh Integration: Enable service meshes to issue mTLS certificates
    with cert-manager, getting the integration with external issuers and the
    audit capabilities of cert-manager in their mesh
  * Istio agent certificates issued via cert-manager

>   * CSI driver: seamlessly deliver unique certs + keys to workloads

Reviewer 2: Further context: revise the code + do a proper release

* Adoption of upstream APIs: continue to support latest APIs for k8s upstream

>   * CSR API: support CSR API as a standard for certificate requests in kubernetes

Reviewer 2: + adding keeping up to date with Kubernetes API changes and releases

* Policy: giving cluster admin granular control over certificate issuance

>   * Extensible primitives within cert-manager for defining policy for

Reviewer 2: Worth thinking about how this would play with ecosystem projects like OPA

Should be extensible, eg a gRPC service that will be able to enforce it that can be ours or a 3rd party one. 
Or s similar system to DNS webhooks? 

How does this tie in with CSR API aproval

(brainstorm session from meeting)

Reviewer 3: IMO, policy should be enforced during the approval flow as you noted here. In terms of how that policy is actually evaluated and applied, I don't think that needs to be a core concern of cert-manager itself as the 'plugin' mechanism already exists in that anyone can write their own approver.

If someone wants to use OPA to evaluate policy decisions, or call out to a gRPC web-service, that'd work just fine. But I think the purpose of having `approval` as part of the API already serves the purpose of making it extensible. I don't think cert-manager core should be opinionated about gRPC vs OPA etc

Author: I agree.

The fact that approval isn't something that we can easily do with a CRD today complicates this a little, but I think the goal of having the core be agnostic should still hold.

    acceptable CertificateRequests
* Extensibility: widen the scope of integrations with cert-manager
  * EST support: support a standard for ACME-like issuance within an enterprise
  * External DNS plugin: enable ACME DNS01 requests to be completed using external-dns
  * OpenShift Routes support: provide similar capabilities to Ingress for
    issuing certs

>   * Improve external issuer development experience: documentation and examples

Reviewer 2: Add policy to this list

Author: The policy section already says that it should be extensible, so is it worth saying that you should be able to extend policy in the extensibility section?

Reviewer 2: maybe not.. this was a remark from the meeting but maybe having it once is enough

    for people developing external issuers
* PKI lifecycle: enable best-practice PKI management with cert-manager
  * Handle CA cert being renewed: deal with the cases where the CA cert is
    renewed and allow for all signed certs to be renewed
  * Trust root distribution: handle distributing all trust roots within a
    cluster, allowing for certs to be verified within a cluster
* Improve developer and operator experience: better user experience
  for installation, operation and use with applications
  * Easier installation of cert-manager: improve the installation experience
    through docs and in other ways

>   * Easier diagnosis of problems: improve the cert-manager output to make the

Reviewer 2: Add new contributor experience?

Roadmap
=======

These are the themes that we plan to work on for cert-manager. If you wish
to discuss these topics you can find us in #cert-manager on Kubernetes Slack, or
at our [community meetings](https://cert-manager.io/docs/contributing/#meetings).

The roadmap items are categorized in to themes based on the larger goals we
want to achieve with cert-manager.

While this is a summary of the direction we want to go, we welcome all PRs,
even if they don't fall under any of the roadmap items.

* Beyond Ingress: improve experience of cert-manager for applications beyond just
  ingress certificates
  * Service Mesh Integration: Enable service meshes to issue mTLS certificates
    with cert-manager, getting the integration with external issuers and the
    audit capabilities of cert-manager in their mesh
  * Istio agent certificates issued via cert-manager

>   * CSI driver: seamlessly deliver unique certs + keys to workloads. Review the

Reviewer 3: `seamlessly deliver unique certs + keys to workloads`

I think it'd also be worth looking at ways we can make a more opinionated variant of the CSI driver that delivers identity certificates to pods transparently, without all the `volumeAttributes` used to specify what fields should be set on the certificate (i.e. delivering 'identity documents' to each pod as opposed to allowing pods to mount arbitrarily specified certificates)

Author: Yes, that's something that came up in a discussion the other day as it happens.

    prototype that we have for this and do a proper release.
* Adoption of upstream APIs: continue to support latest APIs for k8s upstream
  * k8s APIs: keep up to date with Kubernetes API changes and releases
  * CSR API: support CSR API as a standard for certificate requests in kubernetes

> * Policy: giving cluster admin granular control over certificate issuance

Reviewer 3: nit: perhaps "relevant actors" instead of "cluster admin" here? I'd expect this to ultimately be owned by some kind of security team as opposed to cluster administrators

Author: I have just removed it as I think "allowing granular control over certificate issuance" works just fine.

  * Extensible primitives within cert-manager for defining policy for
    acceptable CertificateRequests
* Extensibility: widen the scope of integrations with cert-manager

>   * EST support: support a standard for ACME-like issuance within an enterprise

Reviewer 3: What's EST? (maybe make this a link?)

Reviewer 3: Also not too sure what `support a standard for ACME-like issuance within an enterprise` refers to?

Author: I added a link. I don't think that's the best description, but I haven't read the RFC to form a better one myself yet.

  * External DNS plugin: enable ACME DNS01 requests to be completed using external-dns
  * OpenShift Routes support: provide similar capabilities to Ingress for
    issuing certs
  * Improve external issuer development experience: documentation and examples
    for people developing external issuers
* PKI lifecycle: enable best-practice PKI management with cert-manager
  * Handle CA cert being renewed: deal with the cases where the CA cert is
    renewed and allow for all signed certs to be renewed

>   * Trust root distribution: handle distributing all trust roots within a

Reviewer 3: Big +1 to this - trust distribution is a really important issue that we don't currently properly address at all. It's also something that the Kubernetes project is interested in solving more generally too, so working with sig-auth to try and come up with a solution here would be brilliant.

    cluster, allowing for certs to be verified within a cluster
* Improve developer and operator experience: better user experience
  for installation, operation and use with applications
  * Easier installation of cert-manager: improve the installation experience

>     through docs and in other ways

Reviewer 3: In an attempt to expand "other ways" -

* Tooling to install and upgrade cert-manager (improved operators? CLI tool?)
* Tooling to *verify* an installation is correct/secure

Author: Great, thanks.
